Introduction
************


What is Tote?
=============

It's a small, four-legged robot. Its shape and the way it moves resembles a
spider a little, although it's actually closer to a lizard. In its basic
version it can walk straight or in arcs, walk sideways and backwards and rotate
in place, using a statically stable "creep" gait.


What is it for?
===============

It's supposed to be more than just a remotely-controlled toy, although just
playing with it in that way is lots of fun. It was created as a starting point
for building more advanced walking robots. If you always wanted to build a
walking robot, but wasn't sure where to start, this is it.


Challenges
==========

A lot of walking robot projects never get very far, because they turn out to be
much more complex, expensive and fragile than initially anticipated. By making
certain choices about size, materials and software, I managed to keep Tote
relatively simple, affordable and robust. Thanks to its small size it has more
than enough power to carry its weight, and the simple plastic parts are enough
to hold it together and even survive falls from heights with just minor damage.
At the same time, being just a starting point, Tote gives you a lot of room for
improvement and experimenting.


Required Skills
===============

First and foremost, you will need patience. A lot of decisions were made here
trading time for money. You will wait for the printed circuit board to be made
for you in a factory and then shipped to you. You will wait for shipment of all
the parts you order online. Once it all arrives, you will spend hours debugging
and fine-tuning the code. So this is not a project for aggressive deadlines.

You will also need to glue things together and assemble them using screws. You
will probably also need to use a file to adjust parts that don't quite fit. You
won't need a mechanical saw or drill, though (assuming you use a PCB they made
for you in a factory -- if you are hardcore, you can make the PCB yourself).

This project requires some basic soldering -- at the level of soldering pin
headers to a module, or soldering wires to a PCB. Be careful not to burn
yourself.

You will have to properly connect the USB2TTL converter to your robot to
program it from your computer using the Arduino IDE. For basics you don't need
to know how to code, as all the code is written for you, but you will probably
want to modify and extend it once you get it to work.

Depending on how proficient you are in such things, it can take you anywhere
from four to eight hours to get it all working.
